---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/020/roleplay-applications/240719-xc/","title":"ꕥ the child you were will not return.","created":"2024-09-26T13:45:04.195-07:00","updated":"2024-09-26T15:44:41.530-07:00"}
---

# ꕥ  — OOC INFORMATION;
---
**name / alias:** elu.<br>**age:** nineteen.<br>**pronouns:** any.<br>**ooc contact:** tumblr [@winifreya](https://winifreya.tumblr.com).<br>**triggers:** n/a.<br>**other characters in xc:** ken amada.

*spoilers for the entirety of dawntrail through 7.0 in the app triggers and background sections.*
# ꕥ  — IC INFORMATION;
---
**name:** erenville<br>**age:** twenty-five.<br>**pronouns:** he/him, she/her.<br>**series:** final fantasy xiv.<br>**canon point:** post-7.0 msq (*dawntrail*).<br>**app triggers:** apocalypse scenario, war, parental death
## personality:
---
whenever possible, erenville plays the part of the stoic-faced, self-sidelining ally. if he has a purpose for accompanying you—and one would almost never find him elsewise—he’s determined to follow it through with quick decisions and little nonsense withstood in the process. know that if you’ve particularly earned his ire, he won’t shy from wittily calling you out.

while never one to enjoy being the center of attention nor to be the face of the crowd, erenville excels in observation and even enjoys the act of it. it’s been his job, after all, and his reason for traveling the world. combined with the other half of those requirements, a fondness for nature and a childish faith in old fairytales, one will find that erenville is much warmer than he would initially come off.

- **something your muse struggles with:** admitting what’s dearest to him. he’s already incredibly withdrawn as is, and admitting any more is embarrassing at best and uncomfortable and difficult at worst.
- **your muse’s greatest strength:** the love he has for those dearest to him and for life itself. he cares deeply for those close to him, even though it’s difficult for him to say it, and even cold words can be a show of that.
## history / background:
---
almost sixty years ago, your mother embarked on a journey across the continent she carved into a home, and it changed the course of your lives. alongside six others, she united the continent of tural, ending decades of intracontinental conflict. fifty-five years later, she and the rest of tesh’pyani village raised you in a small village named tesh’pyani underneath the promise of peace.

but peace never heralds an ending, no matter what the fairytales say. your mother still yearns for adventure and leaves often to explore the rest of tural. she never lets you go with her, even when you beg and plead. she promises you can go with her when you become a true explorer, like her—if you can find the city of gold.

it’s all just a fairytale. anyone who goes looking for it never comes back. but your mother’s serious, and until you learn the futility of your promise, you are, too. it’s enough to make you leave tesh’pyani and sail across the sea to an island named sharlayan, where you’re given the opportunity to scour the entire star for flora and fauna and the fable you’ve so longed to find. but you never find it; you fall into a workload that you grow to love as much as your promise instead.

one day, the students of baldesion, a sharlayan group of academics, barge into your workplace and find you. they try to imitate frogs to spy on you. *frogs.* they’re foolish, but they’re trying to save the star. you even help them do it: for every corner you and your mother have left unexplored, for every wonder you have yet to see, and for —

no. forget about it.

after saving the world, you try to visit tesh’pyani. when you do, you’re stopped by a childhood friend, one of the dawnservant’s beloved children. things have changed, and she adds to that. she tells you her father is holding a rite of succession between her, her siblings, and a fourth champion; but there’s a problem. one of her siblings wants to acquire the throne, then lead tural on a journey of conquest, and the fourth competitor, an impudent bully who overpowered his competitors in a contest to earn his place, wants to undo tural’s unification in one swoop. and rumor has it that the rite will involve finding the city of gold, a fable whose rewards you know too well.

thus begins wuk lamat’s journey to maintain turali peace. to aid her, you recruit the students of baldesion and the warrior of light. through combined efforts and an adventure across the entire southern half of tural, your dear friend wins the rite and succeeds her father. in doing so, you even manage to find the city of gold—the same one you had dreamed of, and the same one you thought impossible to exist. your own long-lived journey has ended. you can finally go home.

if only you knew what that adventure would cost you.

when you try to return home, you’re obstructed at every turn. there are issues to resolve, repairs to be made—and when you think you’re done, you’re blocked by a literal barrier and an invasion on tural’s capital. you, wuk lamat, and your allies break through only to find your home a bygone memory, decrepit and abandoned in a field of hazardous levin. you realize what was only days for you following the rite of succession became thirty years for your village and your mother, and they’ve all been living under a system that defies nature itself to survive. your mother, the de facto leader of a rebel organization, hides away to avoid their might, even from you.

she’s hiding from you. while others carve a path with blades and magic, you hang back to learn more about your situation, about her. and maybe that was a mistake, because when you do, you find the city of gold you had so longed for. and you realize in the process that your mother died before you could ever find her, left alone in that very city, and no one will ever remember how or when she died.

it breaks you down and tears you apart. you spend the remainder of your journey mourning someone whose illusion remains by the party’s side. when she’s the one who tells you your journey can only succeed by erasing her illusion and everything that created it, you flee, desperate to gather what’s left of her memories so they won’t scatter. but she died in the thirty years you weren’t there to see her, no matter how much both of you try to escape it.

in the end, you both make the most of the time left to her. you spend the time to the last on one first and final adventure. you get to carry out her final wish. your mother always wanted two things in life: to explore the entire star and to see who you would grow up to be. she never really did get to fulfill them in life, but they can be laid to rest here.

as restful as they can get, anyway. with the last love you have for your mother and her same shared dreams, you do what only the two of you would do. you erase the last illusions of the dying city but carry on her memory. when the star is saved and you find your way to safety, you hang up your mantle and choose to journey as she once dreamed, and to record every adventure with her spirit close by.

almost sixty years ago, your mother embarked on a journey across the continent she carved into a home, and it changed the course of your lives. now, in her wake, you’ll do the same across the entire star you call your home—and you’ll tell her your every memory in the aetherial sea.
## powers / abilities:
---
- none.
### inherent abilities:
---
- **distinguished knowledge in biology and fieldwork.** known as an accomplished scholar in those fields and witnessed as one in game. he focuses on zoology and animal behavior irrespective of habitat.
- **physical strength.** what are a few planks of lumber compared to endless shipments of heavy crates and an even heavier, voracious backpack? also necessary in terms of endurance; he’s not a fighter, per se, but he needs it for the fieldwork and the expeditions.
## items / weapons: 
---
erenville is iconically seen with **a heavy brown knapsack** about half his size, which he uses to carry a variety of items. the known possible list of items includes:
- **various ordinary travel and outdoors provisions,** including but not exclusive to water and food, spare changes of clothes, a lantern, a basic tent, and a bedroll
- **several magical and more fantastical provisions and tools**, such as:
	- alchemical brews to revitalize and restore stamina or aether
	- an **aether seeker**, a stupid floating hand that acts as a compass/navigator towards aether of one’s chosen aspect and concentration level
	- a **pairing stone**, a small magnetic rock used to determine the geological properties of other features

---
> **starting ability:** n/a. <br>**starting item:** the brown knapsack <br>**would you like this character to be housed upon arrival?:** no.
## extra:
---
- transgener
- no “jokes” about “MSQ deadnaming” and please refer to him as erenville with very few exceptions. thank you :)
- not just frog facts stored in this guy but even MORE animal facts

> **discord id:** teshpyani