---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/011/02/leaf-blade/","tags":["BIOL412"],"noteIcon":"1","created":"2024-09-26T13:45:04.097-07:00","updated":"2024-09-26T15:20:25.541-07:00"}
---

The **leaf blade** is the part of the [[011/02/Leaves\|leaf]] [[011/02/Organs\|organ]] that is flat and expanded; typically the part that is associated with leaves. In a two-part leaf structure, the blade attaches to the [[011/02/Petiole\|petiole]] of the leaf. However, in some cases, the blade is attached directly to the [[011/02/Stems\|stem]].

[[Veins\|Veins]] extend from the petiole across the length of the blade in equal diameters. A [[Midrib\|midrib]] vein runs through the center of the blade and connects the [[Minor Veins\|minor]] and [[Major Veins\|major veins]] to the rest of the [[Vascular Tissue\|vascular tissue]].

Leaf blades can vary depending on the necessary adaptations for the plant, but all contain three [[Tissue Systems\|tissue systems]]: the [[Dermal Tissue System\|dermal]], [[Vascular Tissue System\|vascular]], and [[Ground Tissue System\|ground tissue systems]]. The dermal tissue system will always contain epidermis [[011/02/Tissues\|tissue]] that has a single layer of [[Normal Epidermal Cell\|normal epidermal cells]]. In many leaf blades, this tissue is protected by [[Glandular Cells\|glandular]] and [[Eglandular Trichomes\|eglandular trichomes]]. The underside of typical leaf blades may also have several [[Stomata\|stomata]], or more than the upper side will. The veins contain layers of vascular tissue with both [[011/02/Xylem\|xylem]] and [[Phloem\|phloem]] tissue, and they are surrounded by the remainder of the leaf blade, which is made of multiple layers of ground tissue. These layers contain vast amounts of [[Mesophyll\|mesophyll]] alongside other cell types.

Green leaf blades contain [[011/02/Chloroplasts\|chloroplasts]] to maximize photosynthesis after sunlight absorption. Most of this chloroplast is in the underlying layers of mesophyll. Though there are chloroplasts on the layer of epidermis tissue, they develop in the guard cells and are used to produce energy to facilitate the opening of stoma. In some cases, leaf blades do not contain chloroplasts, but other [[011/02/Plastids\|plastids]] such as [[011/02/Chromoplasts\|chromoplast]] which tint the leaf yellow, orange, or red.

Leaf blades can be modified alongside the leaves. Mature cactus spines lack nearly all tissue cell types found in leaves: they lack [[Guard Cells\|guard cells]], vascular tissue, [[Spongy Mesophyll\|spongy mesophyll]], and [[011/02/Parenchyma\|parenchyma]]. Showy, attractive [[011/02/Flowers\|flower]] [[011/02/Petals\|petals]], which are developed from leaf blades, contain different pigments like carotenoids that dye the blades non-green. And the leaves of plants that must adapt to non-[[Mesic Conditions\|mesophytic]] conditions may have various modifications to the cells present in the tissue layers, such as [[Multiple Epidermis\|multiple epidermis]], large air chambers, or the presence of the [[Kranz Anatomy\|Kranz Anatomy]] in the vascular and ground tissue systems.