---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/011/02/platyhelminthes/","title":"Platyhelminthes","tags":["BIOL422"],"noteIcon":"1","created":"2024-09-26T13:45:04.119-07:00","updated":"2024-10-03T23:31:42.385-07:00"}
---

[[Phyla\|Phylum]] **Platyhelminthes** is a [[011/02/Taxonomy\|taxonomic]] group of [[Acoelomate\|acoelomate]] [[Animals\|animals]] whose classes are referred to monolithically as platyhelminths or flatworms. They are known for being the largest taxonomic group in the [[011/02/Taxonomic Clades\|clade]] [[Bilateria\|Bilateria]]. They possesses the most [[Primitive\|primitive]] [[011/02/Organism\|organisms]] that [[011/02/Evolution\|evolved]] [[Bilateral Symmetry\|bilateral]] [[Symmetry\|symmetry]], [[011/02/Cephalization\|cephalization]], and three distinct [[Germ Layers\|germ layers]] while lacking [[Segmentation\|segmentation]] and [[Vertebrae\|vertebrae]] which are commonly attributed to other phyla in Bilateria.

That being said, this phylum’s **characteristic trait** is its [[Dorsoventral\|dorsoventral]] flatness. Platyhelminths are so flat that their [[011/02/Cells\|cells]] are positioned either directly next to their environment—commonly one which is marine or nutrient-rich—or on the lining of their [[Incomplete Gut\|incomplete gut]]. They have a greater surface area to volume ratio, and their shape and ratio allows them to use their entire body for [[Diffusion\|diffusion]] and nutrient exchange.

Platyhelminths are [[Triploblastic\|triploblastic]]. Their embryos undergo spiral, determinate cleavage; their blastopores develop early into a mouth, as their mesoderm develops next to their blastopores. Their mesoderm develops into their muscles, gonads, and the [[011/02/Parenchyma\|parenchyma]], here referring to a “filler” [[011/02/Tissues\|tissue]] unique to platyhelminths. Although they are primitive and do not possess fully evolved [[011/02/Organ Systems\|organ systems]] seen in many Vertebrata phyla, they do possess [[011/02/Organs\|organs]] and several organ systems. They have a developed excretory system known as the [[011/02/Protonephridia\|protonephridia]]. This [[011/02/Organism\|organismal]] development does not fully extend to their digestive system. Most platyhelminths have an incomplete digestive system. They possess a digestive tract with a [[Pharynx\|pharynx]] and [[Esophagus\|esophagus]] which leads to an incomplete gut and a [[Blind-Ended\|blind-ended]] [[Gastrovascular Cavity\|gastrovascular cavity]], causing slow digestion and excretion. Some members, such as those of class [[011/02/Cestoda\|Cestoda]], have less developed digestive systems due to their parasitic dependence. In addition, all flatworms do not have a circulatory system or a respiratory system.

All platyhelminths are [[Monoecy\|monoecious]]. Most perform both sexual and asexual reproduction. In the case of the former, they rarely use their own gonads to self-fertilize. Parasitic platyhelminths have incredible reproductive capacity without resorting to [[Self-Fertilization\|self-fertilization]]. In several of their early life stages, a platyhelminth will use [[Polyembryony\|polyembryony]] to produce many offspring from a single egg. In later stages, they perform [[Reciprocal Mating\|reciprocal mating]] with local platyhelminths to increase the number of offspring produced. Some, but not all flatworms can perform reproduction through fission, such as [[Planaria\|Planaria]].

All platyhelminths possess a degree of forward-traveling [[Motility\|motility]]. Turbellaria are free-living and locomote for their entire life. The other flatworms, which are all [[Parasitism\|parasitic]], possess motility as larvae, but they lose it when they become adults. In adulthood, parasitic flatworms attach to a host and become sessile. This loss promotes platyhelminthic monoecy because reciprocal mating allows local platyhelminth to survive and reproduce after attaching to a common host.

Phyla Platyhelminthes is divided into three major [[Classes\|classes]] and a fourth minor class. These classes are sectioned by the degrees of their parasitism, an [[011/02/Modern Evolutionary Theory\|evolution]] behavior found in many flatworms.
- **Class [[011/02/Turbellaria\|Turbellaria]]** comprises of all [[Free-Living\|free-living]] flatworms. These flatworms are not parasitic and have evolved to survive on their own. They have the most developed cephalization of the phylum.
- **Class [[011/02/Monogenea\|Monogenea]]** comprises of [[Ectoparasitic\|ectoparasitic]] flatworms who use simple life cycles without intermediate hosts to survive and reproduce. They are primarily found attached to marine definitive hosts.
- **Class [[011/02/Trematoda\|Trematoda]]** comprises of endoparasitic flatworms (commonly referred to as flukes) who use complex life cycles with multiple intermediate hosts to survive and reproduce. They have less developed cephalization than Turbellaria.
- **Class [[011/02/Cestoda\|Cestoda]]** comprises of [[Endoparasitic\|endoparasitic]] flatworms (commonly referred to as tapeworms) who use complex life cycles with a single intermediate host to survive and reproduce. They have the least developed cephalization: their anterior and posterior sides are indistinguishable.