---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/011/02/turbellaria/","title":"Turbellaria","tags":["BIOL422"],"noteIcon":"fallback","created":"2024-09-26T13:45:04.139-07:00","updated":"2024-09-26T15:26:58.440-07:00"}
---

[[Classes\|Class]] **Turbellaria** is a [[011/02/Paraphyletic Groups\|paraphyletic]] subrank of the [[Phyla\|phylum]] [[011/02/Platyhelminthes\|Platyhelminthes]] which encompasses all [[Free-Living\|free-living]] flatworms. Turbellaria possess the highest degree of [[011/02/Cephalization\|cephalization]] of the platyhelminths to survive their non-[[Parasitism\|parasitic]] behavior. This trend shows in their distinguished [[Anterior\|anterior]] and [[Posterior\|posterior]] sides, of which the anterior contains many important [[011/02/Organs\|organs]] at the [[Cephalic Region\|cephalic region]].

The anterior contains a pair of [[Eye Spots\|eye spots]], [[Auricles\|auricles]], and [[Ganglia\|ganglia]] clusters. The ganglia form a primitive [[Brain\|brain]] for the Turbellaria which is connected to the rest of the body using a long pair of [[Ventral\|ventral]] [[Longitudinal\|longitudinal]] [[Nerve Cords\|nerve cords]]. These longitudinal chords are connected to one another using several [[Transverse\|transverse]] nerve cords. [[Lateral\|Lateral]] nerve branches are also present at the junctures of the nerve chords.

The longitudinal nerve cords intersect with the [[Gastrovascular Cavity\|gastrovascular cavity]] many times through the body: a large, [[Blind-Ended\|blind-ended]] organ which possesses an anterior [[Animal Trunk\|trunk]], two posterior trunks, and many [[Diverticula\|diverticula]] branching from the organ. The cavity has a single opening at the [[Mouth\|mouth]] of the [[Pharynx\|pharynx]], which is located on the ventral side of the body near its center, in the [[Pharyngeal Region\|pharyngeal region]].

Turbellaria possess a developed [[Digestive System\|digestive system]] in spite of having an [[Incomplete Gut\|incomplete gut]] and a blind-ended cavity. The pharynx extends out from the pharyngeal region to probe and feed on its prey. Digestive [[Enzymes\|enzymes]] in the pharynx loosen nutrients and [[Muscle\|muscle]] contracts to move food into the gastrovascular cavity. [[011/02/Columnar\|Columnar]], vacuolated [[011/02/Epithelial Tissues\|epithelial]] [[Cells\|cells]] line the [[Gastrodermis\|gastrodermis]], [[Phagocytosis\|phagocytosing]] smaller particles through extracellular digestion while enzymes break down larger nutrients outside of the cell.

Food waste is excreted via an opening at the tip of the pharynx, while liquid waste and interstitial fluids are excreted through the [[011/02/Protonephridia\|protonephridia]]. Excess fluids are drawn through currents made by the protonephridia that lead through the [[Excretory Canals\|excretory canals]] and out through small [[Excretory Pores\|excretory pores]]. [[011/02/Parenchyma\|Parenchyma]] composes the remainder of the body.

All members of the class Turbellaria are [[Carnivores\|carnivores]]. Many are [[Benthic\|benthic]] flatworms who reside in marine, freshwater, and damp terrestrial environments. They have a variety of compositions with a [[Cilia\|ciliated]] ventral surface and many placements of their gut. All members are motile and possess locomotion for their entire life. All are [[Monoecy\|monoecious]] and collectively can perform [[Sexual Reproduction\|sexual]] [[Reproduction\|reproduction]], tending to cross-fertilize with other members of their [[Species\|species]]. Some can perform asexual reproduction by [[Fission\|fission]], [[Fragmentation\|fragmentation]], or [[Budding\|budding]]. Some of the most well known Turbellaria are [[Planarians\|Planarians]] such as those of the *[[Planaria\|Planaria]]* and *[[Dugesia\|Dugesia]]* [[Genera\|genera]].