---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/010/00/160308/","title":"Persona 3 Reload (Ken Dialogue)","tags":["P3RE"],"created":"2024-10-02T14:11:30.000-07:00","updated":"2025-01-22T01:21:14.522-08:00"}
---

# Notes and Markdown
> [!tip]+ Preliminary Notes
> > [!warning] **THIS CONTAINS SPOILERS FOR PERSONA 3 IN FULL, INCLUDING THE NEW CONTENT ADDED TO PERSONA 3 RELOAD!!!!!**
> - Basically every line of dialogue by or related to Ken Amada and his storyline is in this document. The script is based on the one used in *Persona 3 Reload*, which is a reworked translation of the dialogue in *Persona 3 Portable* that includes several additions. Any dialogue sections outside of the Calendar Dialogue and Story Events which are not initiated by talking to Ken is given context to where it originated from.
> 	- I’ve chosen to transcribe Ken’s lines in full because of the alterations made in *Reload*. It’s enough that the differences are noticeable between *Reload* and *Portable*, so I figured it would be worth doing regardless.
> - This page is based on the English localization of the script.
> - Small edits have been made to the transcript which refer to choices made in the English voice acting (such as gasps or stutters). For the most part, the transcription is wholly 1:1 with that which is used in the dialogue boxes.
> - Following the decisions made by the English localization, Japanese honorifics and terms such as *senpai* have been left in.
> - In voiced lines where Ken addresses the player by name, he will almost always refer to them as *senpai*. This page uses the default name offered for the protagonist in-game as a placeholder, **Makoto Yuki**. Whenever a voiced line uses a different term, the placeholder name is italicized, with parentheses following with the term used in the line or no parenthetical term when the protagonist is not referred to at all.
> - Some calendar dialogue will repeat for several days; this page only lists the first day they can occur.
> - “Ellie, why the hell would you do this?” Ken’s meant so much to me since I was 12 and it’s been years and he means so much to me now. Also, it’s really fun to do transcriptions and look at version differences!
>
> > [!faq] Have I made a typo or left something out? Leave an ask [on Tumblr](https://winifreya.tumblr.com/ask) and I’ll get back to you! All help is greatly appreciated.

> [!tip]- Callout Markdown
> > [!tldr] Notes in these callouts provide additional information and context separate from game dialogue.
>
> > [!example] Notes in these callouts provide tooltips for items and abilities in-game.
>
> > [!help] Notes in these callouts reference internal dialogue and choices made by the protagonist.
>
> > [!quote] Notes in these callouts reference dialogue in flashbacks and dialogue specific to different dialogue choices from the protagonist.
>
> > [!error] Notes in these callouts reference text messages. The callout header will always reference the sender’s name;
> > > [!quote]- The header of this callout will reference the subject name;
> > > These callouts are foldable (as are many others) to reflect the text message format, and the body will be preserved under the dropdown.
>
> > [!warning] Notes with this callout reference dialogue I just straight up cannot find.
# Combat Gameplay
## Persona
https://aqiu384.github.io/megaten-fusion-tool/p3r/personas/Nemesis/fusions
### Abilities
- Ziodyne: 14 SP: Electric: Deals heavy Electric damage to 1 foe. Low chance of inflicting Shock.
- Dekaja: 10 SP : Nullify stat buffs for all foes.
- Kougaon: 15 SP: Light: Deals heavy Light damage to 1 foe.
- Makougaon: 25 SP: Light: Deals heavy Light damage to all foes.
- Heat Riser: 36 SP: Increases 1 ally's Attack, Defense, and Accuracy/Evasion rates for 3 turns.
- Tetrakarn: 24 SP: Erect a barrier for 1 ally that repels 1 physical attack.
- Makarakarn:
- Light Amp:
# 8/28, Dark Hour;
## Beginning;
> [!note]+ Upon going to Tartarus for the first time after Ken joins SEES, after Koromaru’s introduction (if this is also the first time with Koromaru)
> > **Ken Amada:** Um, excuse me.<br> **Ken Amada:** Will you please add me as a member in today’s search party?<br> **Ken Amada:** I want to participate in lots of battles and get used to handling my Persona.
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!quote]- Okay, come with me.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** All right! I hope I can prove myself useful to all of you!
> >
> > > [!quote]- Don’t push yourself too hard.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Don’t worry, I have no intention of doing so.<br>**Ken Amada:** But, I do want to do whatever I can.<br>**Ken Amada:** So, um… I’d be very grateful if you let me come and fight alongside you!
# Standard Combat Lines
## Entering Combat
| S.E.E.S. Advantage!   | No Advantage                    | Shadows Advantage!   |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| Alright… bring it on! | Heh. Caught them off-guard.     | …! Brace yourselves! |
| Time for battle.      | Yes! We have the upper hand!    |                      |
| We won’t hold back!   | Yes! Let’s make the first move! |                      |
## Idling as Ken
| Idling as Ken           |
| ----------------------- |
| Feel pretty good!       |
| I’m surging with power! |
| Ready for some Theurgy! |
| This’ll be good!        |
## Attack
| Standard Attack | Critical Attack | Missed Attack |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Hyah! | Take that! You like that?! | Huh…?! |
| Take this! | There! Die! |  |
| There! |  |  |
| There! Hold still! |  |  |
| Think fast! |  |  |
| Yes! |  |  |
## Persona
> [!quote] I have to do… what must be done. I have to! Lend me your strength, *Nemesis!*

| Considering Persona | Summoning **Nemesis**      | Summoning **Kala-Nemi** | Divine Retribution                                             | Divine Intervention                        |
| ------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| And, now…           | I need your help, Nemesis! | Let’s go! Kala-Nemi!    | It’s my turn!<br>Hyah!<br>Pillars of light… rain down on them! | I’ve decided… I won’t let anyone else die! |
| I’ll end this.      | Just watch.                | Help us! Kala-Nemi!     | Now’s my chance!<br>Fly!<br>Try catching this!                 |                                            |
| Keep it together.   | Nemesis!                   | This is it!             | My spear’s ready!<br>Go!<br>Eat this!                          |                                            |
| My Persona’s ready! | Now!                       | Here I come!            |                                                                |                                            |
| Will this work?     |                            |                         |                                                                |                                            |
## Enemy Killed
| Ken Dodges       | Enemy Dodges  | Enemy Killed                                             | Last Enemy Killed         | Leveling Up                      |
| ---------------- | ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Too predictable! | They’re fast! | There’s two left!                                        | All right, onto the next! | All right! A new move!           |
| Way too slow!    | No way!       | (?) Now he’s focused now! (i don’t think this is right.) | I won’t lose.             | Haha! Guess I’m growing up fast! |
| Whoops!          | Huh…?         |                                                          | Okay, next one!           |                                  |
## Receiving Damage
| Damaged | Damaged (Low HP) | Weakness | Inflicted with | Status Effects |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Ah…! | No mercy, huh… | No way! | **Distress:** Wh… what’s happening?! |  |
| Augh! |  |  | **Fear:** Why do I feel like this…?! | **Paralyzed by Fear:**<br>W-wh-wh–who says I’m scared?! |
| Gh… |  |  | **Shock:** It’s too much! |  |
| Looks bad… |  |  |  |  |
| Oh no! I’m hit! |  |  |  |  |
| Ow…! |  |  |  |  |
| Ugh! |  |  |  |  |
| Uh oh… |  |  |  |  |
| Urgh… |  |  |  |  |

| Recovering from Weakness | Healing Others (with Item) | Healing Self (with Item) | Healed by Others |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Now it’s my turn!! |  | **(Low HP)** Good thing we brought this…! | That helped! |
|  |  |  | Thanks! |
|  |  |  | Thank goodness! |
|  |  |  | You’re the best! |
## Party Shift
| Shift from Ken  | To **Protagonist**      |
| --------------- | ----------------------- |
| Go in my place! | Leader, it’s all yours! |
| Switch with me! | Let’s do it!            |
#### Unique Lines
| Shift from **Protagonist** | From **Akihiko** | From **Koromaru** |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Good choice! | ( *You got this, Amada? / Do you mind?* )<br>Let’s change it up! | ( *ARF ARF!* )<br>I hear you, Koromaru! |
| I’ll do my best! | ( *Do it. / It’s all you! / You got this, Amada?* )<br>Okay! I can do it! |  |
| I’m ready! |  |  |
| Me? |  |  |
## All-Out Attack
| **Ken** Initiates                | From **Yukari Takeba** |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| It’s time to go all out!         | Amada-kun, you did it! |
| Now’s our chance! Let’s do this! |                        |
| Yes! Let’s get them, everyone!   |                        |
| \[???] All together, now!        |                        |

| **Protagonist** Initiates | **Yukari** Initiates   | **Akihiko** Initiates      | **Aigis** Initiates         |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| That was awesome!         | That’s it, Yukari-san! | Nice one, Sanada-*senpai!* | You really let him have it! |
|                           |                        |                            |                             |
|                           |                        |                            |                             |
|                           |                        |                            |                             |

| Accepting | During | Finishing | End of All-Out Attack |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Alright! | Die, die, die! | Let’s end this! | I hope that helped a little…! |
| Let’s finish this! | Fight! | Everyone, together! | This is how we do it! |
|  | HYAAHHH!!! | How do you like that?! | \*Playful laughing\* … It’s all over! |
|  | Just a little… |  | !!! Well… that’s how we do it! |
|  | Why, you little… Stop struggling! |  | Not too bad, right? |
|  |  |  | Justice always wins! |
# Tartarus Conversations
## Solo Dialogue
| Finding Shadows | Chests | Missing Persons | Stairs | Teleporters |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| It’s an enemy. Do we attack? | There’s a treasure chest over there! | Isn’t that a missing person? We’ve gotta help! | We’ve found the stairs! | That teleporter can take us back to the entrance, but I can keep going! |
| …Look, there’s a shadow! | I bet we’ll find something good in there. Let’s open it up! |  |  |  |
| **(Rage Shadow)** That one looks really strong… |  |  |  |  |
| **(Rage Shadow)** Looks like that one will be tough to beat! |  |  |  |  |

| Entering Next Floor | Exiting a Fight |
| ---- | ---- |
| I think we’re starting to get somewhere! | We did it! |
| Okay! Let’s make some progress! | All right, now back to exploring! |
| Whew… okay, time to move on! | Nice! That went well! |
|  | I’m always happy to team up with everyone! |
|  | Whew… guess it’s time to move on. |
Just when am I going to grow taller…?
(cleared one floor) Hehe, kinda feels like a big accomplishment. Let’s keep it up for the next floor too.

(scout) Leave it to me! There’s no way those Shadows will find me!

(reaper) That doesn’t sound good… We better get out of here!

let the battle begin!
i’m ready to go.

(I’ve got this!) Come on, bring it! I’ll take you on!
(alright!) it looks strong… we can do this!

i’m ready! let’s take it down!
here it comes! let’s take it down!

According to Fuuka-san, there are still a lot of Gatekeepers before we reach the top.
But we’ll make it for sure. Let’s all keep doing our best!

I wonder what he would say at a time like this…
\*whine\*
## Group Conversations
> [!tldr] More Information
> Group conversations can activate even if not all characters necessary for the conversation are present in the party; the conversation will stop when a character is unavailable. This is going to be a nightmare to complete.

> **Akihiko Sanada:** Reminds me of the days we used to fight back-to-back.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Hmph… Could you stop dredging up the past? It’s distracting.<br>**Ken Amada:** … …

> **Ken Amada:** I might be a kid, but I’ll catch up to all of you in no time.<br>**Koromaru:** Arf, arf!<br>**Ken Amada:** I think Koromaru’s saying he feels the same way.<br>**Ken Amada:** Let’s get stronger together, Koromaru!

> **Ken Amada:** Is everyone getting enough sleep…? Oh, I’m fine though—just asking.<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** Hehe, that’s good to hear. Just don’t push yourself too hard, okay?

> Just when am I going to grow taller…?

> I really like this armband. I like it a lot.
## Gatekeeper Conversations
> [!note]- Between September 2nd and October 3rd, when defeating a Gatekeeper with Ken Amada and Shinjiro Aragaki in the party:
> > **Ken Amada:** So everyone up until now has defeated lots of enemies like the one just now, right?<br>**Ken Amada:** When fighting enemies stronger than you… is there anything important to keep in mind?
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!quote]- First, keep a level head.
> > > >**Ken Amada:** In other words… stay calm? Like the blue ranger?
> >
> > > [!missing]- Determination is key.
> >
> > > [!missing]- Well, there’s a lot.
>
> > **Fuuka Yamagishi:** Amada-kun, there’s no need to be worried. It’s fine to start out slow and steady.
>
> > [!tldr] Ken scratches his chin.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Um… I appreciate your concern, but…<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Hey, if he’s saying he wants to get stronger, then let him do what he wants.
>
> > [!tldr] \[!] Fuuka’s cut-in flashes on screen.
>
> > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** He’s long made up his mind. Since he’s here and all.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** …Ain’t that right?<br>**Ken Amada:** Y-Yes…!<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** There you have it. If you’re really worried about him, then back him up.<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** U-Understood…!<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** Sorry, Amada-kun… Just let me know if you have trouble with anything.<br>**Ken Amada:** Yes, of course! Thank you so much! I really do appreciate your support!

> [!note]- When defeating a Gatekeeper with Ken Amada in the party:
> > **Ken Amada:** Phew, those Gatekeepers are a lot tougher than the typical Shadows wandering around.<br>**Ken Amada:** Should we keep going? Or is it time we take a break?
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!missing]- Let’s turn back.
> >
> > > [!quote]- Let’s move on.
> > > **Ken Amada:** I see… you’re a man of steel, aren’t you, Yuki-san?<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh, but I’m also good to go! Let’s see how far we can get.
> >
> > > [!missing]- I’m on the fence.
# Dorm Activities
> [!tldr] More Information
> Ken will only be regularly available to cook and watch DVDs with the protagonist. He will only be available after joining SEES. He will be unavailable for gardening, but a gardening event with Shinjiro Aragaki is transcribed here due to relevance. Events with other characters where he is also present, such as walking Koromaru and studying for school, are also transcribed here.
## Watching DVDs
> [!tldr] More Information
> Ken will be available to cook with the protagonist on Fridays from **September 4th** onwards.
### First Event;
> [!note]+ Next to the television on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** I just rented a DVD. It’s a foreign film about a hardboiled detective.<br>**Ken Amada:** I have a little free time right now, so…
>
> > [!help] *Watching a detective movie with Amada might help me gain more* 🌟 Courage…
>
> > **Ken Amada:** If you’re free right now, do you want to watch it with me?
>
> > [!quote]- Let’s watch it together.
> > > **Ken Amada:** Okay, I’ll set it up.
> >
> > > [!note] On the couches on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** They recommended this at the store when I said I was looking for a movie with a cool, hard-boiled main character.<br>**Ken Amada:** But so far, he just seems like a reckless old man to me.<br>**Ken Amada:** He even fell for that woman’s lies… Do people really think this guy is cool?
> >
> > > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > > [!quote]- That’s right.
> > > > > **Ken Amada:** I thought so. It’s definitely not cool to fall for such an obvious trick.
> > >
> > > > [!quote]- Probably not.
> > > > > **Ken Amada:** Really? I don’t get it.
> > >
> > > > [!quote]- Just wait and see.
> > > > > **Ken Amada:** Oh, that’s right. We are only halfway through the movie.
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** ...! He’s surrounded by gangsters again!<br>**Ken Amada:** Wow… He was so cool!<br>**Ken Amada:** He actually knew it was a lie the whole time, and he was just pretending to be tricked!<br>**Ken Amada:** His signature phrase was so good, too.<br>**Ken Amada:** “You can’t be a detective without smarts, and you’ve got no right being a detective without a heart!”
> >
> > > [!help] *I feel like I gained some* 🌟 Courage *after watching how a man of conviction lives…*
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** Ohh, looks like this movie is part of a series!<br>**Ken Amada:** Let’s watch the other ones together when you have time!
>
> > [!quote]- Now’s a bad time.
> > > **Ken Amada:** Oh, I guess you do seem pretty busy… Maybe the next time you’re free then.
### Second Event;
### Third Event;
## Cooking
> [!tldr] More Information
> Ken will be available to cook with the protagonist on Sundays from **September 6th** onwards. You will not be available on September 20th, but it seems like he will be available on September 27th (?), so his cooking event storyline can be finished before the full moon.
### First Event;
> [!note]+ At the kitchen island, on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** I know this kinda came out of nowhere, but… um, would you like some coffee right now?<br>**Ken Amada:** Not the instant stuff, but with properly ground beans and all that.<br>**Ken Amada:** I saw someone prepare coffee on a show, and I wanted to try doing it myself…
>
> > [!help] *Amada asked me to join him for coffee…*<br> *Should I spend the evening with him?*
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Yuki-san, if you don’t mind, could you maybe be my taste-tester?
>
> > [!quote]- Sure.
> > > **Ken Amada:** Okay! I’ll get started right away.
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** Ngh, the inside of my mouth still tastes all—<br>**Ken Amada:** …Uh, I mean, coffee’s meant to be taken black, don’t you think? It’s the only way to experience the natural taste of the beans.<br>**Ken Amada:** The one from Brazil is very smooth, while the Kilimanjaro one is more sour and full-bodied.
> >
> > > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > > [!quote]- You know a lot.
> > > > > **Ken Amada:** Hehe, I read about it in a book. I also learned how to brew it and stuff.<br>**Ken Amada:** But it doesn’t taste much different from the instant type… I wonder if the beans aren’t good quality.
> > >
> > > > [!quote]- As long as it’s drinkable.
> > > > > **Ken Amada:** I thought so too, but I heard the properly-brewed ones are completely different.<br>**Ken Amada:** That’s why I tried to learn how to make it, but… honestly, they taste the same to me.
> > >
> > > > [!quote]- Where’s today’s from?
> > > > > **Ken Amada:** Oh! Um, it’s called a “Value Pack Blend.” I bought it at the supermarket.<br>**Ken Amada:** Does the quality of the beans really affect the flavor that much? Maybe I’ll try some better ones next time.
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** Anyways, sorry for the sudden invite.<br>**Ken Amada:** But they say that drinking coffee can help you relax and concentrate better.<br>**Ken Amada:** I just thought something like that might benefit us in our upcoming battles.<br>**Ken Amada:** And, I figured if I could learn to make good coffee, people might find that useful.<br>**Ken Amada:** I’ll do some more research. I can tell there’s room for improvement…
> >
> > > [!note] In the kitchen, on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** Sorry for asking you to help me clean up, too.<br>**Ken Amada:** Please, take the leftovers with you. Although, you might not necessarily like it…
> >
> > > [!example]- GOT: Okay Coffee x 1
> > > > Coffee brewed with Amada. Restores 100 SP to 1 ally.
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** Sure, I’d prefer my coffee to taste good, but I could do without all the test sips…<br>**Ken Amada:** Um! It’s not that I don’t appreciate the flavor, it’s just that it’s not good for an elementary school kid to drink too much, so…<br>**Ken Amada:** And you seem like someone who’d appreciate a good cup of coffee, like from a cafe.<br>**Ken Amada:** I hope you have another cup the next time I make some. I’ll make sure it tastes better by then, haha.<br>**Ken Amada:** Well then, good night.
>
> > [!missing]- Not right now.
### Second Event;
> [!note]+ At the kitchen island, on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** I studied up a little on coffee beans.<br>**Ken Amada:** I wanted to test some things out. Do you have some free time right now?
>
> > [!help] *Amada asked me to join him for coffee…*<br> *Should I spend the evening with him?*
>
> > **Ken Amada:** I promise I’ll brew it correctly this time.
>
> > [!quote]- Sure.
> > > **Ken Amada:** Okay! I’ll get started right away.
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** I’m using different beans today. I went to a coffee shop and bought some real ones this time!<br>**Ken Amada:** I made sure to store them in the fridge, and I only ground them right before brewing.<br>**Ken Amada:** I also learned you need to be mindful of how hot the water is as well as how you pour it.
> >
> > > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > > [!quote]- You did a great job.
> > > > > **Ken Amada:** Yes, I practiced with the cheaper beans from before since I can’t afford too many of the expensive ones.<br>**Ken Amada:** …Although it was hard to drink all that coffee, so I added a lot of milk and sugar, hahaha.
> > >
> > > > [!quote]- How sure are you?
> > > > > **Ken Amada:** Well, I practiced with the cheaper beans from before since I can’t afford too many of the expensive ones.<br>**Ken Amada:** Although, this is the first time I’m brewing with these fancier beans. I wonder how it’ll turn out…
> > >
> > > > [!quote]- It’s gonna get cold.
> > > > >**Ken Amada:** Oh, sorry! You’re right, coffee is best when it’s hot and fresh.
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** Well then, let’s drink, shall we? Cheers, Yuki-san!<br>**Ken Amada:** Phew…<br>**Ken Amada:** It’s still really bitter… So bitter…<br>**Ken Amada:** But it’s not only that. I could actually taste some of the sweetness and richness this time.<br>**Ken Amada:** The beans and brewing technique can make a huge difference, huh? Oh, and the smell was great, too!<br>**Ken Amada:** I’m feeling a little nostalgic, actually…<br>**Ken Amada:** Thanks for joining me, Yuki-san. I’m gonna practice a little more to try and get the hang of this.<br>**Ken Amada:** Let’s make some more if we ever get the chance.
> > >
> > > **Ken Amada:** Oh…<br>**Ken Amada:** Uh, first I gotta use the bathroom…! I drank a lot while I was practicing today…
>
> > [!missing]- Not right now.
## Gardening
> [!tldr] More Information
> Ken will be unavailable to garden with the protagonist. The following transcript is of the third gardening event with Shinjiro Aragaki, which can occur in the latter half of September, before October 4th.

> [!note]+ By the stairs to the second floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > [!faq] *Tending to the rooftop planters might help improve the quality of the produce…*<br>*Aragaki might gain a new ability soon…*
>
> > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** You’re comin’ too, aren’t ya?
>
> > [!faq]- → Go to the rooftop
> > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** …Alright. Let’s go then.
> > >
> > > > [!note] Looking at the planters on the rooftop of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > >
> > > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** If this keeps up, we’ll be in good shape. <br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** If there are any crops that are bruised or misshapen, give ‘em to me.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** They’ll still taste fine, and nothin’ beats eatin’ em freshly picked.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Oh, right. Don’t just leave the stems and roots laying around after harvesting the crops.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Take ‘em out and replace the soil right away. You can’t replant anything until you do that.
> > >
> > > > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > > > [!quote]- Got it.
> > > > > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** I’m glad you pick up on stuff so quickly. Less trouble that way.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** You’re great to work with, unlike a certain someone.
> > > >
> > > > > [!quote]- That’s so wasteful.
> > > > > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** Cut it out. You sound like Aki.
> > > >
> > > > > [!quote]- What a pain.
> > > > > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** You’re the one in charge of these. Ya gotta think about whoever’s gonna use them after you.
> > >
> > > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** I might not be here to help next time, so just do what I say.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** You know, I only started this on a whim, but it’s worth it every now and then.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Even someone like me can, well… How do I put this…? Growing something lets you see the result of your labor, so you feel like you built it with your own hands.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Its life cycle ends once you eat it, though.
> > >
> > > > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > > > [!quote]- It becomes our sustenance.
> > > > > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** Yeah, true.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** We get hungry just bein’ alive, so I guess they play their part.
> > > >
> > > > > [!quote]- We still have our memories.
> > > > > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** That’s so damn cheesy.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** But you know, maybe you’re right.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** I thought I’d forgotten all about gardening as a kid.
> > >
> > > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** Even if someone disappears, maybe they can still leave somethin’ behind…<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** … …
> > >
> > > > [!tldr] \[?] A question mark will appear next to the protagonist’s head.
> > >
> > > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** Nothin’. Just talkin’ to myself.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Guess that ain’t really like me.
> > >
> > > > [!faq] *Aragaki seems to have realized something through tending the garden…*
> > >
> > > > [!tldr] Completing this interaction will unlock the second characteristic of his personality.
> > > > > [!example]- Auto Heat Riser
> > > > > > Temporarily increases all stats of self at the start of battle.
> > >
> > > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** I ended up sayin’ a little too much today.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Break time’s over. Let’s get back to it.
> > >
> > > > [!faq] *I tended the plants with Aragaki…*
> > >
> > > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** Alright, that just about does it.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Thanks for your help. If you ever do this again, I’ll join you.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Time to head back.
>
> > [!missing] Not now
## Studying
- four videos so far:
	- joins in with aigis (force, w/ koromaru) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bW7RFpKKU24
	- 10/12 midterms group study
	- ken + koromaru https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OGU1Ma6UgrU
	- group study (aki fuuka junpei yukari ken koro + mitsuru) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AYuqpq0xyaU
## Walking Koromaru
### 10/10, Evening;
> [!note]+ On the hallway carpet of the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Koromaru:** Arf!
>
> > [!faq] *Koromaru is looking at me with pleading eyes…*<br>*He seems to want to go for a walk…*<br>*Ken can come along for a walk with us tonight.*
>
> > [!faq]- → Go together
> > > [!note] At Naganaki Shrine:
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** \*pant\* \*pant\* I finally caught up…<br>**Ken Amada:** You’re too fast, Koromaru…<br>**Ken Amada:** Don’t go running at top speed like that…<br>**Ken Amada:** My legs aren’t long enough…<br>**Ken Amada:** Um, Yuki-san… Is it all right if I rest a bit?
> >
> > > [!note] On the benches at Naganaki Shrine:
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** Um… I wanted to apologize.<br>**Ken Amada:** For making so much trouble, and worrying everyone… <br>**Ken Amada:** I… lost something very precious.<br>**Ken Amada:** But in exchange… I gained something just as important…<br>**Ken Amada:** That’s why I think I’ll be all right on my own now.<br>**Ken Amada:** Thank you for bringing me along today.
> >
> > > **Koromaru:** \*pant\* \*pant\* Arf!<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh, there you are! Guess it’s about time…<br>**Ken Amada:** …Huh? Looks like Koromaru’s got something.
> >
> > > [!example] GOT: \[RANDOM ITEM] x 1
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** Wonder what this is.<br>**Ken Amada:** I’m curious where it’s from, but… it’s getting late. We should head back.<br>**Ken Amada:** All right, this time I’m not gonna lose! Let’s go, Koromaru!
>
> > [!faq]- → Let someone else do it
### 10/31, Evening;
> [!note]+ On the hallway carpet of the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Koromaru:** Arf!
>
> > [!faq] *Koromaru is looking at me with pleading eyes…*<br>*He seems to want to go for a walk…*<br>*Ken can come along for a walk with us tonight.*
>
> > [!faq]- → Go together
> > > [!note] At Naganaki Shrine:
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** I did it! I won today…<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh man, it’s hot…
> >
> > > [!note] On the benches at Naganaki Shrine:
> >
> > >**Ken Amada:** We’re so close… It’s almost time for the final battle.<br>**Ken Amada:** … …<br>**Ken Amada:** We can do this. Right, Leader?<br>**Koromaru:** \*pant\* \*pant\* Arf!<br>**Ken Amada:** Yeah, we’ll do it together!<br>**Ken Amada:** …Huh? Did you pick something up again?
> >
> > > [!example] GOT: \[RANDOM ITEM] x 1 \[ex. Snuff Soul]
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** Wonder what this is… You didn’t eat anything strange, did you, Koromaru?<br>**Ken Amada:** I’ll have to remember to brush your teeth when we get back. Let’s go, Yuki-san.
>
> > [!faq]- → Let someone else do it
# Calendar Dialogue
## 07/26, Evening;
> [!tldr]+ This dialogue occurs upon arrival at Iwatodai Dormitory.
> **Ken Amada:** Oh, hello!<br>**Ken Amada:** Come to think of it, have you heard about <font color="#245bdb">Be Blue V</font>?<br>**Ken Amada:** It’s this shop in Paulownia Mall, but there’s a rumor you can talk to spirits there!<br>**Ken Amada:** Sounds a little sketchy, huh? I wonder what kind of shop it is…

> [!note]+ Reading a women’s fashion magazine at the dining table on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** Aigis-san is a robot, right?<br>**Ken Amada:** You really can’t tell whenever she wears normal clothes like we do.<br>**Ken Amada:** The Kirijo Group must be super powerful to have invented a robot like her.
## 07/31, Evening;
> [!note]+ Reading a women’s fashion magazine at the dining table on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** You all stay up so late.<br>**Ken Amada:** I try to stay up as late as you guys, but I’m always the first one to fall asleep.<br>**Ken Amada:** What do you guys do so late at night?
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!missing]- Study.
> >
> > > [!missing]- Goof off.
> >
> > > [!quote]- Adult activities.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Jeeez… There you go, treating me like a kid again…<br>**Ken Amada:** You’re not that much older than me, you know.
## 08/26, Evening;
> [!note]+ By the bulletin board at Iwatodai Dormitory.
> **Ken Amada:** I always thought there was something I had to do.<br>**Ken Amada:** The more I thought about it, the more hesitant I became…<br>**Ken Amada:** But I’ve made up my mind… The next chance I get, I’ll do it.<br>**Ken Amada:** …I’ll get it done for sure.
## 08/29, Evening;
> [!note]+ Next to the television on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> **Ken Amada:** Just wondering, does everyone do any weapon training?<br>**Ken Amada:** I should practice on my own to get the hang of fighting better, shouldn’t I?<br>**Ken Amada:** Okay, I’ll start today then.
## 08/30, Evening;
> [!tldr]+ This dialogue occurs upon arrival at Iwatodai Dormitory.
> **Ken Amada:** Oh, hello!<br>**Ken Amada:** It looks like there’ve been more of them lately… You call them “the Lost,” right?<br>**Ken Amada:** I don’t mean to be rash, but… I’d like to put my power to good use.

> [!note]+ On the couch near the wall on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Mitsuru Kirijo:** He seems very determined… Normally, I would think he would be a great addition to SEES.<br>**Mitsuru Kirijo:** His age worries me, though…<br>**Mitsuru Kirijo:** We will need to keep a close eye on him.

> [!note]+ On the couch near the carpet on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Fuuka Yamagishi:** Sanada-senpai has been acting a little strange lately, don’t you think?<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** Maybe it’s difficult for him to watch Amada-kun put himself in danger…<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** Despite appearances, I think that, deep down inside, Sanada-senpai is actually a really kind person…

> [!note]+ At the dining table on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** Now that I’ve officially joined and learned what’s really going on…<br>**Ken Amada:** It’s changed my perspective. This is a job only we can do.
## 08/31, Daytime;
> [!note]+ On the couch near the wall on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** Um… Today’s the last day of summer vacation, right?<br>**Ken Amada:** Well, since it is…<br>**Ken Amada:** …I was wondering if you had any plans today.<br>**Ken Amada:** I-I just wanted to ask. No reason…<br>**Ken Amada:** … …
>
> > [!help] *It seems like Amada wants to say something…*
>
> > [!help]- → Invite him to the movies
> > > **Ken Amada:** S-Sure!
> >
> > > [!help] *Amada looks happy…*
> >
> > > [!note] At the Film Festival, at the concessions at Screen Shot theater:
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** “Superhero Crossover Collection”… H-Huh, so that’s what they’re showing today.<br>**Ken Amada:** The monster on that poster is from Amoebaman…! …Ah—<br>**Ken Amada:** …Uh.<br>**Ken Amada:** I-It’s not like I’m super excited about it or anything!<br>**Ken Amada:** I was just bored, and I thought it would pass the time.<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh no, it’s starting!<br>**Ken Amada:** Quick, we gotta get good seats!
> >
> > > [!quote] *Inside the movie theater, in the background, on the screen:*
> > >
> > > > [!tldr] A loud riff plays and transitions into action music.
> > >
> > > > [!tldr]- Contextual Notes:
> > > >
> > > > For brief context, remember that this is a superhero crossover movie. In typical *Persona* superhero fashion, these heroes reference real-life *[Tokusatsu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tokusatsu)* shows.
> > > >
> > > > - Of the heroes mentioned, only **Feather Black** has confirmed prior basis: they are one of the heroes from *Phoenix Ranger Featherman Victory* (*Featherman V*), the show which Yukari Takeba stars in during *Persona 4 Arena Ultimax.*
> > > > - **Kotodamanger** and their dialogue is based on *[kotodama](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kotodama)*, a Japanese spiritual concept related to the soul. The name is a portmanteau of *kotodama* and *ranger*. They appear to reference *Super Sentai* heroes, the genre which *Power Rangers* is based off of.
> > > > - I have no fucking clue who **Senzord Rider Z** is. Both Japanese and English audio pronunciations of the first word are different, so I can’t make it out clearly. The English translation to Rider references vehicle-riding superheroes such as the *[Kamen Rider](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kamen_Rider)* franchise. Possible other translations may include Zen-Sword; I went with Senzord for the time being because Zords are a robotic concept from *Power Rangers*.
> > >
> > > > **Feather Black:** Wings of the night! Feather Black, *transform!*<br>**Kotodamanger:** Eat your heart out! Kotodamanger, bringing the soul!<br>**Zen Sword Rider Z:** “Descendant of Heroes”, Senzord Rider Z at your service!
> > > >
> > > > ***Unknown Antagonist:*** So that comes out to… 48 heroes?! *How many more are there?!*
> > >
> > > > [!faq] *…I feel like I’ve seen the heroes transform hundreds of times.*<br>*It makes me feel as if I can transform myself.*
> >
> > > [!note] Outside, at the concession stand at the Screen Shot theater:
> >
> > > **Ken Amada:** … …<br>**Ken Amada:** That…<br>**Ken Amada:** …was SO COOL!<br>**Ken Amada:** Ah! Did you SEE the part where Amoebaman gets captured!?<br>**Ken Amada:** And THEN the part where he was in the underground prison, but used Morse code to call for help!<br>**Ken Amada:** And how they had him tied up, but he managed to shoot out a laser beam JUST in the nick of time, and then the bad guys—<br>**Ken Amada:** Uh…<br>**Ken Amada:** Anyways… some of the scenes were pretty good.<br>**Ken Amada:** B-But it’s all just make-believe anyways.<br>**Ken Amada:** … …<br>**Ken Amada:** Heheh.<br>**Ken Amada:** That was a lot of fun. Thank you for inviting me.
## 08/31, Evening;
> [!note]+ On the couch near the carpet on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Aigis:** Amada-san is small, so he uses a spear with a long reach.<br>**Aigis:** This enables him to compensate for his small stature and fight bigger enemies.<br>**Aigis:** Indeed, a spear is the perfect weapon for Amada-san.

> [!note]+ On the couch near the wall on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** School starts up again tomorrow…<br>**Ken Amada:** Has Junpei-san caught up on his homework? Doesn’t he seem to be spacing out more often?<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh, my homework’s all done, of course.<br>**Ken Amada:** I knocked it all out in July. That’s just par for the course.
## 09/01, Evening;
> **Ken Amada:** When Aigis-san wears a school uniform, she looks just like your average high school student.
## 09/02, Evening;
> [!note]+ On the seat near the door on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Junpei Iori:** Aragaki-san kicks ass, man! I’m never gonna forget what he did for us back at the alley.<br>**Junpei Iori:** With him back on the team, ain’t nothin’ gonna take us down!

> [!note]+ On the couch near the carpet on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Yukari Takeba:** Aragaki-senpai’s the guy who helped us out at that place, isn’t he?<br>**Yukari Takeba:** And he used to be with SEES, huh? So we’ll be fighting with him from now on…<br>**Yukari Takeba:** Oh, I didn’t mean to sound like I have a problem with that. I know he’s a good guy deep down.

> [!note]+ On the couch near the carpet and television on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Fuuka Yamagishi:** Aragaki-senpai seems scary, but I think he’s just misunderstood…<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** I doubt that he’s a bad guy… I mean, he used to fight alongside Sanada-senpai and Kirijo-senpai.

> [!note]+ At the kitchen island on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** Aragaki-san seems very strong.<br>**Ken Amada:** But do you think he’s trustworthy? I mean, he was hanging out at that kind of place…<br>**Ken Amada:** I just find it hard to trust people like him right off the bat…
## 09/03, Evening;
> [!note]+ On the couch near the wall on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** Did something happen between Yukari-san, Junpei-san, and Aragaki-san?<br>**Ken Amada:** They all seem to trust each other…<br>**Ken Amada:** I guess the two of them think Aragaki-san is a good person.
## 09/05, Dark Hour;
> **Shinjiro Aragaki:** So this is one of those huge Shadows, huh. Well, not like it changes what we usually do…<br>**Ken Amada:** I’ll help, too…
## 09/07, Evening;
> [!note]+ At the kitchen island on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** Mitsuru-san and Sanada-san are both still at the hospital.<br>**Ken Amada:** Their questioning of Chidori must not be going well…
## 09/08, Evening;
> [!tldr]+ This dialogue occurs upon arrival at Iwatodai Dormitory.
> **Fuuka Yamagishi:** Hi, how was your day?<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** So, um… you’ve probably already seen the message I sent, but I have a favor to ask you.<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** It’s about Amada-kun… <br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** This is just a hunch, but I think he’s been feeling kinda down lately. <br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** Could you check in on him when you have the time? He should be in his room.

> [!error] ✉ Fuuka Yamagishi
> > [!quote]- About Amada-kun:
> > I’m a little concerned about Amada-kun.
> >
> > Ever since second semester started, he’s been looking kind of down.
> >
> > He won’t tell me anything, so I was hoping you’d drop by his room and check in on him. Could you?

> [!help] *Fuuka seems worried about Amada…*<br>*[Should I check in on him?](https://damnedsapphist.vercel.app/010/00/160308#0908-evening-1)*
## 09/10, Evening;
> [!note]+ On the couch near the wall on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** Why isn’t anyone going to the hospital today?<br>**Ken Amada:** Did they finish questioning her already? Chidori, right?
## 09/11, Early Morning;
> [!note]+ At the front gate of Gekkoukan High School:
> > **Yukari Takeba:** Morning, Yuki-kun.<br>**Yukari Takeba:** So… there’s something bothering me lately.<br>**Yukari Takeba:** Why did Aragaki-senpai suddenly decide to come back?
>
> > [!quote] I’m not sure. / He’s an indomitable force.
>
> > **Yukari Takeba:** Yeah. I mean, he looks scary, but…<br>**Yukari Takeba:** He doesn’t look like the type who’d rejoin just ‘cause he likes to fight.
## 09/12, Evening;
> [!note]+ On the seat near the door on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Junpei Iori:** Have you ever thought about what you’re living for?
>
> > [!missing]- To a certain extent.
>
> > [!quote]- Not at all.
> > > **Junpei Iori:** I didn’t before either. But I’ve been thinking about it a lot lately…<br>**Junpei Iori:** …Especially when I look at her. She makes me think about the reason I’m alive.
## 09/13–09/14, Evening;
> [!note]+ At the kitchen island on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** Koromaru always seems to be having fun, doesn’t he?<br>**Ken Amada:** He gets so excited over a meal or a walk…<br>**Ken Amada:** I wish my life was that simple.
## 09/16, Evening;
> [!error] ✉ Mitsuru Kirijo
> > [!quote]- About Amada:
> > Have you been able to talk to him? I would really appreciate it if you did.
> >
> > It seems like he’s holed up in his room again today…
> >
> > I’m counting on you.

> [!help] *Mitsuru seems worried about Amada…*<br>*Should I check in on him?*
## 09/18, Evening;
> **Fuuka Yamagishi:** According to the news, a typhoon just hit.<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** Apparently, it’s the biggest one on record. It’s moving slowly, too, so it’ll be gloomy for a while…<br>**Junpei Iori:** Yeah, thanks to that, the school festival got canned.<br>**Junpei Iori:** Welp, less work for us in the end, I guess.<br>**Junpei Iori:** Still sucks that we’ll be stuck indoors for vacation though… …<br>**Junpei Iori:** So, what’cha gonna do over break?
>
> \[…]
>
> **Fuuka Yamagishi:** Um… Oh! Amada-kun, what are your plans over the break?<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh, I’m not really doing anything in particular…<br>**Junpei Iori:** Come on, you gotta be doing something.<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh, I’ll probably go visit the shrine.<br>**Junpei Iori:** Dude, you’re a kid, not an old man.<br>**Ken Amada:** I always go to pray, though.<br>**Ken Amada:** I guess you could say I have a wish I want granted.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** … …<br>**Ken Amada:** Anyway, I’m going back to my room. I’ve got a lot of homework to do.<br>**Junpei Iori:** Oh, okay. Just holler if you get stuck, yeah?<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** … …<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** … …

> **Shinjiro Aragaki:** A wish, huh…<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Tch, why can’t he just act like a normal kid…?
## 09/24, Evening;
> [!tldr]+ This dialogue occurs upon arrival at Iwatodai Dormitory.
> **Ken Amada:** Oh, hello!<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh, Yuki-san. Any plans to go to Tartarus tonight?<br>**Ken Amada:** I want to get stronger… since there have been even more incidents and all.<br>**Ken Amada:** We can go whenever you’re free. Just please take me with you if you’re going to Tartarus?

> [!note]+ By the couches on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** I think I’ll head to my room in a bit…<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh, don’t mind me. I’m usually like this.<br>**Ken Amada:** … …
## 09/29, Evening;
> [!error] ✉ Ken Amada
> > [!quote]- How curious
> > Yuki-san, you’re close with Koromaru, right? I wonder what he’s doing outside the dorm entrance. Please ask him the next time you see him.
## 10/01, Evening;
> [!note]+ At the dining table on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** It’s about time for a full moon… Are you ready?
>
> > [!quote]- You bet.
> > > **Ken Amada:** I hope we’ll be able to win again this time.
>
> > [!quote]- Kinda.
> > > **Ken Amada:** Well, there’s still plenty of time to prepare yourself, so no need to panic.
## 10/11, Evening;
> [!missing] Missing

> **Ken Amada:** If I keep living in the past, I’ll never be able to move forward.
## 10/17, Evening;
(missing) (midterms convo)
Are they difficult? Yes, they are. Not really. They’re pure torture.
## 10/19, Evening;
(missing) (on entry) I’ll be fighting for him, too…!
## 10/21, Evening;
(missing)(second floor table)
You too, Koromaru? But… you can sleep any time you want, can’t you?
I’ll be sure to tell my mother and Aragaki-san about it, but…
I guess I wanna learn what it’s like to be an ordinary elementary school student.
## 10/26, Evening;
(missing) (on the couch near the wall, eating chips)
I want my mom and Aragaki-san to be proud of me.
## 10/28, Evening;
(missing) (on the couch near the wall, eating chips)
No matter how much you prepare for something, doing it for real is always a little nervewracking, isn’t it?
How about you, Yuki-san? Do you feel nervous in the slightest?
(options missing)
You’re amazing… No wonder you’re the leader.
I can’t help but feel uneasy whenever I think about the Dark Hour disappearing…

strega might be planning something
but that doesn’t matter
because i’ll never forget  what they did

this is it…
i’m going to fight for my mom and aragaki-san.

this isn't about revenge. this is about doing what needs to be done.
## 11/03, Dark Hour;
(party, strega)
I can do it.
What are you going to do?

(party, hanged man)
We have to put a stop to this…
I can go whenever you’re ready.
## 11/05, Evening;
> [!note]+ Next to the television on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** What in the world was Ikutsuki-san plotting? He went on about “resurrection” and “sacrifices”…<br>**Ken Amada:** But he kicked the bucket before explaining the most important part.<br>**Ken Amada:** I never thought he would be such an irresponsible adult.
## 11/06, Evening;
Oh, hello, Yuki-san.
Isn’t that the prize you can win in a raffle? You enter by buying packs of Gummy Gum.
Why would you want one? You’re already in high school…
Well, I do have one…
\> Featherman R Figure x1
I-I’m not into it or anything! I just happen to have extra raffle tickets.
Um… I actually have a dupe of the same color, so you can have it.
But… please take good care of it.
But, wow… I didn’t know you liked Phoenix Ranger Featherman R.
M-maybe we could watch it together sometime…?
## 11/08, Daytime;
> [!note]+ On the couch near the wall on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> >**Ken Amada:** I wonder if Mitsuru-san’s okay…<br>**Ken Amada:** She can’t seem to rely on any adults.<br>**Ken Amada:** I suppose adults are… less reliable than I thought.
## 11/11, Evening;
> [!note]+ At the kitchen island, on the first floor of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Ken Amada:** I lost a parent, so I know how Mitsuru-san feels.<br>**Ken Amada:** **\[missing dialogue]**<br>**Ken Amada:** I still remember how I shut myself away from the rest of the world.
## 11/13, Evening;
> [!tldr]+ This dialogue occurs upon arrival at Iwatodai Dormitory.
> > **Ken Amada:** Oh, hello!<br>**Ken Amada:** Um… Is it just me, or does Junpei-san seem unhappy about something?<br>**Ken Amada:** He’s been mumbling under his breath for the longest time… Do you think it’s about Chidori-san?<br>**Ken Amada:** Well, it’s probably best to leave him be until we know what’s on his mind, right?
# Linked Episodes
> [!tldr] More Information
> Ken’s linked episodes begin as early as **September 8th** and continue into the end of the game. All are limited-time events that may be missed if time expires. All five episodes need to be completed in sequence; if one is not completed, the final gift and Persona fusion from Ken’s linked episodes will be unavailable for that playthrough. All episodes are different from social links in that it does not matter what choices are picked in the events in order to complete them successfully; they simply must be done. Choosing a “negative” option (such as ordering kid’s ramen for Ken) will not fail the episode.
## 09/08, Evening;
> [!note]- On the second floor, in front of Amada’s room:
> > [!help] *[Fuuka asked me to check on Amada…](https://damnedsapphist.vercel.app/010/00/160308#0908-evening-1)*<br>*This could be a good opportunity to get to know him better.*<br>*Should I spend the evening with Amada?*
>
> > **Ken Amada:** …Yes?<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh, Yuki-san… Can I help you?
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!missing]- I’d like to talk.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** [?] With me…? Okay, but why so suddenly?
> >
> > > [!quote]- How have you been?
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Uh, well… I’m okay.<br>**Ken Amada:** Why are you asking?
>
> > **Ken Amada:** You aren’t… worried about me, are you?<br>**Ken Amada:** If so, thank you, but I’m totally fine.
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!missing]- That’s a relief.
> >
> > > [!missing]- Just don’t overdo it.
> >
> > > [!quote]- You can always talk to me.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** I’ll do that. You’re really caring, Yuki-san.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Thanks for going out of your way to check on me. I’ll do my best not to worry you.<br>Well then, good ni—…<br>*\[Stomach Growling SFX]*<br>Come to think of it, I haven’t had dinner yet. I should probably eat something…<br>**Ken Amada:** Um, Yuki-san…<br>**Ken Amada:** You wouldn’t happen to be hungry, would you?
> - - -
> > **Server:** Welcome! Take any open seat.<br>**Ken Amada:** … …<br>**Ken Amada:** …He’s not here.<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh, uh, it’s nothing!
> >
> > **Ken Amada:** Sorry for asking you to go out all of a sudden.<br>**Ken Amada:** I just wanted someone to come with me. It’s a little intimidating going to get food by myself.<br>**Ken Amada:** People tend to stare when they see an elementary school kid like me out on his own.<br>**Server:** Your order?
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!quote]- Two specials.
> > > > **Server:** Two specials, comin’ right up!<br> **Ken Amada:** Seems like that’s the thing to get, huh. Thanks for ordering.
> >
> > > [!missing]- Two regulars.
> >
> > > [!quote]- A kid’s ramen.
> > > > **Server:** Err, sorry, we don’t have that here…<br>**Ken Amada:** I-I’m fine with the regular! I can totally eat that much!<br>**Ken Amada:** That was mean, Yuki-san… Please don’t treat me like a kid.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** …So I saw some people from our dorm stop by here a while back.<br>**Ken Amada:** Like Sanada-san, and that guy who recently joined… Aragaki-san.<br>**Ken Amada:** Do you come here with them too, *Yuki-san*? What kinds of things do you talk about?<br>**Ken Amada:** …Oh, sorry for asking something so weird.<br>**Ken Amada:** I just thought I should know a bit more about everyone, since we’ll be fighting together from now on.<br>**Ken Amada:** But it’s good either way, ‘cause I’ve always wanted to have a proper chat with you, *Yuki-san*.<br>**Ken Amada:** Everyone in the dorm is amazing, but you’re on a completely different level.<br>**Ken Amada:** I can’t believe how many Personas you’re able to use!
>
> > [!tldr] At this point, the server will arrive with two bowls of ramen regardless of the player’s order.
>
> > **Server:** Here you are!<br>**Ken Amada:** Ikutsuki-san and Mitsuru-san said that each person normally has only one Persona, and that it doesn’t change.<br>**Ken Amada:** That means, what I saw back then was really…<br>**Ken Amada:** …Uh, it’s nothing! Sorry, shall we eat?
> - - -
> > **Ken Amada:** Whew, I finished all the soup too. I’m stuffed!<br><i>**TV Sound:** Phoenix Ranger Featherman R: The Melancholy of Swallow will air this winter as a TV special!</i><br>**Ken Amada:** Huh!?<br>**Ken Amada:** Wow, a spin-off with Swallow as the main character! I gotta make sure I record that!
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!quote]- Do you like that series?
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Yeah, I watch it every week without fail! But this TV special is big news!<br>**Ken Amada:** Swallow doesn’t usually make much of an impression, but there’s a theory that he’s actually stronger than Hawk!<br>**Ken Amada:** Ah…<br>**Ken Amada:** I, uh… heard that from a friend. TV shows like that seem to be popular in my class.<br>**Ken Amada:** I only watch them so I have something to talk about… haha.
> >
> > > [!missing]- What’s this about?
> >
> > > [!quote]- That sounds interesting.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Yeah, it is! This is big news!<br>**Ken Amada:** Swallow doesn’t usually make much of an impression, but there’s a theory that he’s actually stronger than Hawk!<br>**Ken Amada:** Ah…<br>**Ken Amada:** I, uh… heard that from a friend. TV shows like that seem to be popular in my class.<br>**Ken Amada:** I only watch them so I have something to talk about… haha.
>
> >  **Ken Amada:** Anyway, it’s been a while since I’ve enjoyed a meal like this.<br>**Ken Amada:** I guess it’s because I’m eating with you, *Yuki-san*.<br>**Ken Amada:** You’re really easy to talk to, and the ramen was delicious. Maybe we next time we can—<br>**Ken Amada:** … …<br>**Ken Amada:** …Um, it’s nothing.<br>**Ken Amada:** It’s getting late. We should start heading back.
> - - -
> > **Ken Amada:** It was… delicious?<br>**Ken Amada:** …No. This food was not delicious.<br>**Ken Amada:** Don’t let yourself think like that.
> - - -
> > **Energetic Boy:** Hey, Amada!<br>**Energetic Boy:** You on your way home? Us too, we just finished eating dinner.<br>**Calm Mother:** Oh, are you from the same class, Amada-kun?
>
> > [!tldr] At this point, Ken’s arms are at his sides, but he will fold them over his chest as he speaks.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** …Yes. It’s nice to meet you.<br>**Energetic Boy:** Oh yeah, Amada, you gotta join next month’s soccer tournament!<br>**Energetic Boy:** We’ve all been waiting for you, y’know? We can even practice together after school!<br>**Ken Amada:** I’ll have to pass.<br>**Ken Amada:** I’m not even sure if I could make it next month.<br>**Energetic Boy:** Aww, come on, we can’t win without you! You’re better than all of us!<br>**Calm Mother:** You can’t pressure someone like that. Can’t you see you’re bothering him?<br>**Calm Mother:** I’m sure Amada-kun has a lot going on, isn’t that right?<br>**Ken Amada:** Oh, no, it’s fine.<br>**Calm Mother:** I’m sorry, please excuse us. You should hurry home too, Amada-kun.
>
> > [!tldr] Here, Ken’s arms will drop to his sides again.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Home…
>
> > [!quote] *In the background, between the “Calm Mother” and “Energetic Boy”:*
> > > **Calm Mother:** Come on, let’s get going. Your grandma is waiting for us.<br>**Energetic Boy:** But mooooom, if Amada doesn’t join us, we’re gonna get totally creamed!
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Sorry about that.<br>**Ken Amada:** … …
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!quote]- Do you not like playing soccer? / Do you guys not get along?
> > > > **Ken Amada:** No, it’s not that.<br>**Ken Amada:** I just have enough to do. Second semester has already started, and we have to go to Tartarus at night.<br>**Ken Amada:** I know we’ll be going through a lot from now on, so I decided to not make any promises.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** More importantly, sorry for keeping you out so late.<br>**Ken Amada:** Let’s make our way back to the dorm.
>
> > [!help] *I parted with Amada and returned to my room…*<br>*I feel like my* 🌟 Academics *improved thinking about what’s on Amada’s mind…*
## 09/15, Evening;
> [!tldr] This linked event can happen on either September 15th or September 16th.

> [!note]- On the second floor, in front of Amada’s room:
> > **Ken Amada:** Ha…! Hyah!
>
> > [!help] …?<br>*Sounds like he’s doing something in his room.*<br>*Should I spend the evening with Amada?*
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Oh. Who’s ther—<br>**Ken Amada:** …Gah! Ow!
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Yuki-san…?
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!quote]- Am I interrupting something?
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Oh, um…<br>**Ken Amada:** I was just cleaning my room. Sorry, was it too loud?
> >
> > > [!missing]- I was asked to check in on you.
> > > >
> >
> > > [!quote]- I heard some noise.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Sorry, I knocked over some stuff while I was cleaning. <br>**Ken Amada:** I guess sound travels really well around here. I’ll be more careful.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Okay then, good night.<br>**Ken Amada:** … …<br>**Ken Amada:** …Um, Yuki-san.<br>**Ken Amada:** Actually, there’s something I’d like to talk about. Will you come in?
>
> > [!note] Inside Ken Amada’s room:
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Sorry it’s so messy in here. This won’t take long.<br>**Ken Amada:** I actually have a favor to ask of you.<br>**Ken Amada:** You see, I have a pet hamster.<br>**Ken Amada:** I got him when I was living with my mom and he’s been with me ever since, so I decided to bring him here.<br>**Ken Amada:** If, for some reason, I don’t make it back here in the future, then this little guy will be all alone.<br>**Ken Amada:** So…<br>**Ken Amada:** Could you help look after him if that happens, Yuki-san?
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!quote]- That won’t happen.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Of course. I have you guys with me, so I won’t go down easily.<br>**Ken Amada:** …But, you never know, right?<br>**Ken Amada:** It was the same with my mom. Everything happened so suddenly…
> >
> > > [!missing]- That might be difficult.
> >
> > > [!quote]- Why me?
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Because you’re our leader, and you’re basically already an adult. I know how capable you are.<br>**Ken Amada:** You even came to see me today. You look out for the ones around you, so I’m sure he’d be happy with you…
>
> > **Ken Amada:** So please, I can even provide a little something as thanks.<br>**Ken Amada:** I’ll give you all my allowance and the rest of my New Year’s money… And I’ll give you all the comics here, plus whatever else you want!
>
> > [!quote] Hypothetically speaking. / If it makes you feel better.
> > > **Ken Amada:** Okay, that works for me!
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Well, aren’t you the lucky one?<br>**Ken Amada:** But when that happens, you better listen to him, okay?
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!quote]- What’s his name?
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Uhh… His name…<br>**Ken Amada:** …It’s Hamburger…
> >
> > > [!quote]- Cute.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Hey, did you hear that, Hamburger? Yuki-san complimented you!<br>**Ken Amada:** …Oh, uhh, Hamburger is his name, by the way.
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!quote]- That’s a good name.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** You think so? Mom used to always laugh about it.<br>**Ken Amada:** The night he came home with me, we had hamburgers for dinner, so that’s why.
> >
> > > [!quote]- Is that your favorite food?
> > > > **Ken Amada:** My favorite would be omelet rice, but hamburgers are a close second.<br>**Ken Amada:** The night he came home with me, we had hamburgers for dinner, so that’s why.
> >
> > > [!quote]- Sounds delicious…
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Y-You can’t eat him!<br>**Ken Amada:** But, you know what? I think my mom laughed and said the same thing back then.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Anyways, thank you so much. That’s a big relief.<br>**Ken Amada:** There’s not much time left now…<br>**Ken Amada:** Sorry again for the disturbance. Could you apologize to everyone else for me?<br>**Ken Amada:** It’s getting late, so I’m going to bed soon.<br>**Ken Amada:** Um, actually… can I ask you one more thing?<br>**Ken Amada:** Everyone in this dorm is so kind.<br>**Ken Amada:** They always come up to me for a casual chat, and they treat me like a normal person.<br>**Ken Amada:** Sure, there were plenty of adults who showed concern for me, but I feel like the people here are a little different… …<br>**Ken Amada:** And you came to check in on me again today.<br>**Ken Amada:** But why? Why does everyone here care about what happens to me?
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!quote]- Because we’re a team.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** A team…<br>**Ken Amada:** I only just joined, but you already think of me as one of your own?
> >
> > > [!quote]- Because I know how it feels.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Oh, right, your parents—<br>**Ken Amada:** I’m sorry. I shouldn’t have said that.
> >
> > > [!missing]- No particular reason.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** …I guess that was a weird question, wasn’t it? Sorry, don’t mind me.<br>**Ken Amada:** But… maybe I should’ve asked sooner.<br>**Ken Amada:** …I don’t know if I’ll be able to fully repay you for your kindness, but I’ll do my best.<br>**Ken Amada:** Okay then, good night.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** … …<br>**Ken Amada:** Yuki-san, I’m really glad you came.<br>**Ken Amada:** Thank you, and I’m sorry. I won’t let you down.
>
> > [!help] *I left the silent hallway and returned to my room…*<br>*I feel like my* 🌟 Courage *has improved after accepting Amada’s desperate request…*
## 09/24, Evening;
> [!tldr] This is an excerpt from one of Shinjiro Aragaki’s linked events, occurring in the same ramen shop that Ken’s does on September 8th.

> [!note]- At the bar in Hagakure Ramen at Paulownia Mall:
> […]
>
> > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** Since it’s you, I guess I’ll say it. I ain’t gonna live much longer.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** I’m getting by on meds right now, but that won’t last forever.
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!missing]- How did that happen…?
> >
> > > [!quote]- Is there anything we can do…?
> > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** …This is probably the part where I ask God for a miracle. But that’s never worked for me.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** This is my body we’re talkin’ about. I know it better than anyone. And I know there’s nothin’ I can do.
>
> > **Server:** Here ya go, two specials!<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Eat up. The noodles’re getting soggy.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** … …<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** I know it seems like I wasted your time, but…<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** It’s the good memories that stay with you and get people through their struggles…<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** But it’s also the mistakes you make that haunt you forever.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** I gotta use what time I have left to set things straight. I don’t have the luxury of doing anything else.
>
> > [!quote] Don’t forget your promise. / You have to keep your word.
> > > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** …!
>
> > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** Damn, you really don’t mince your words, do ya?<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** But y’know, that ain’t so bad.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** It’s way more refreshing than havin’ someone keep quiet ‘cause they’re scared of hurting my feelings.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** That’s gotta be why they depend on you so much.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Aki and Kirijo are fighting with way more confidence than they had two years ago.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Yeah, you’re just somethin’ special.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** But look, if you got time to waste on me, then go spend it on someone else.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Like Amada, he’s still just a kid. He’s way in over his head.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** I’m still gonna do what I can to help, but after that…<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** …I’m counting on you.
## 10/09, Evening;
> [!tldr] This is an excerpt from one of Akihiko Sanada’s linked events which occurs in Iwatodai Dormitory.

> [!error] ✉ Akihiko Sanada
> > [!quote]- (No Subject)
> > Somehow, even after all that’s happened, I can still feel hungry.
> >
> > If you’re free, I’d like you to come shopping with me. I wanna try something out, so if you can make it, come meet me at Iwatodai Station.

> **Akihiko Sanada:** Would you mind getting everyone else? And don’t forget Amada.
>
> \[…]
>
> **Akihiko Sanada:** I realized I’d just been running away all this time, making excuses about having my own problems.

## 11/10, Evening;
Keep it up.
I will. I’ve done enough thinking. Now I just want to try doing all kinds of new things.
I think I have an idea of how to live my life again.

Is that how you feel?
Yeah. I can’t explain it very well, but…
I feel like you can see the real me.
# Story Events
## 07/18, After School;
> [!note]+ Outside of the entrance to Gekkoukan High:
>
> > [!tldr] Junpei runs ahead of Yukari, Fuuka, and the protagonist, as well as Akihiko. He will raise his fist in the air as he speaks
>
> > **Junpei Iori:** Woohooo!<br>**Junpei Iori:** Freedom at last! What should I do now?<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** Take it down a notch, will you?<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** You bounce back from things so quickly, Junpei-kun.<br>**Junpei Iori:** Oh hey, Sanada-san’s here. Don’t see that every day.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** Ikutsuki-san called me.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** I think he wants to talk about a new candidate.<br>**Yukari Takeba:** Does that mean another person is going to join?<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** Maybe.<br>**Natsuki Moriyama:** Fuuka!
>
> > [!tldr] Natsuki runs on-screen and bows to the group.
>
> > **Fuuka Yamagishi:** What’s wrong, Natsuki-chan?<br>**Natsuki Moriyama:** Do you think you can stay after school with me for a mandatory study session? There’s like, no one—<br>**Natsuki Moriyama:** Oh, wait. Are you about to head out for the day?<br>**Natsuki Moriyama:** Okay, then never mind.<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** Wait!<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** It’s all right. I’ll help you.<br>**Fuuka Yamagishi:** Sorry. I’ll see you all back at the dorm later.
>
> > [!tldr] Fuuka walks off-screen with Natsuki while talking.
>
> > **Junpei Iori:** I’m really surprised at how much she’s changed.<br>**Ikutsuki’s Voice:** Ah, friendship. How beautiful!<br>**Ikutsuki’s Voice:** Adolescence is such a wonderful thing. So full of vibrancy!
>
> > [!tldr] The camera turns towards the gate of Gekkoukan High. Ikutsuki walks on screen with a child in a school shirt, an orange vest, shorts, and sneakers.  \[?] A question mark appears over Yukari’s head.
>
> > **Yukari Takeba:** Mr. Chairman?<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** Oh, hello. I just stopped by to pick someone up.<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** I might as well introduce you to him now.
>
> > [!tldr] \[!] An exclamation mark appears over Akihiko’s head.
>
> >**Akihiko Sanada:** Hm?<br>**Elementary School Student:** Hello.<br>**Yukari Takeba:** Oh, Amada-kun. What’re you doing here?<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** You know him?<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** He doesn’t leave during the break because of his… circumstances.<br>**Yukari Takeba:** Oh, I heard about that.<br>**Yukari Takeba:** Something about your parents, right?
>
> > [!tldr] Ken folds his arms over his chest and looks around at the group, before letting them fall to his sides.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** It used to be only me and my mom, but she got in an accident. So now it’s just me.<br>**Ken Amada:** It happened two years ago.<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** Right now, one of his distant relatives is paying for his school expenses.<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** But that doesn’t mean he should stay at the *elementary school dorm* all by himself, right?<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** So I decided to move him to your dorm, just for the summer.
>
> > [!tldr] [!?] An exclamation and question mark appear over Yukari’s head.
>
> > **Yukari Takeba:** T… To OUR dorm!? Do you really think that’s a good idea?<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** Why, of course. He has the potential.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** Then he’s the new candidate?<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** That’s right.<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** But as you can see, he’s still just an elementary school student. So, it’s only a possibility for now.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** … …
>
> > [!tldr] Ken’s hand reaches up to his chin hesitantly.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Are you… Akihiko Sanada-senpai?<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** Uh, yeah.
>
> > [!tldr] Ken raises his fist in the air.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** I’ve heard a lot about you. You’ve never lost a boxing match!<br>**Ken Amada:** Nice to meet you!<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** Um, yeah, nice to meet you.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** … …
## 08/24, Daytime;
> [!note]+ In front of Hagakure Ramen at Paulownia Mall:
>
> > [!tldr] 🤬 Shinjiro will walk out of Hagakure Ramen scratching the back of his head. A grawlix will appear next to his head.
>
> > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** Gh… You just don’t know when to give up, do ya?<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** I’ll come back as many times as I need to. I don’t give up that easy.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** And my answer will be the same every time. I’m not going back.
>
> > [!tldr] Shinjiro will start to walk off, but he stops when Akihiko responds.
>
> > **Akihiko Sanada:** Actually, we got a new team member. Did you know animals can use Personas too?<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** …Wait, what’d you just say?<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** He’s a dog. He lost his master to the Shadows six months ago.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** And he’s incredibly loyal too… Up until now, he’s been guarding the spot where his master was killed.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** It’s been rough for him, but he’s making the most of it.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** … …
>
> > [!tldr] Ken walks on screen. \[?] After his first line, a question mark will appear over his head.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Huh? Oh, it’s Sanada-san.<br>**Ken Amada:** …?<br>**Ken Amada:** Who’s he talking to? I wouldn’t want to butt in.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** We saw someone die right before our eyes, too…<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** It’ll be two years, this October…
>
> > [!tldr] \[!] An exclamation mark appears over Ken’s head. He runs behind the *Wakatsu* restaurant sign to the left of Hagakure Ramen and turns to overhear Akihiko and Shinjiro.
>
> > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** … …<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** How long are you gonna beat yourself up over that?<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** That’s why you’re always behind the station, even though you don’t actually hang out with anyone there.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Doesn’t matter.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** It was my fault, and nothing’s ever gonna change that.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** What does it matter if I come to terms with it? It won’t change the past.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** This isn’t like it was with your sister… What happened to Miki was different.
>
> > [!tldr] Akihiko’s hand drops to his side. Shinjiro will fix his beanie when he speaks.
>
> > **Akihiko Sanada:** Shinji…<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** It’s over now.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** I just want to forget it ever happened.
>
> > [!tldr] Shinjiro walks off. As he does, the camera zooms on Ken, leaving Akihiko out of the frame.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Two years ago…?<br>**Ken Amada:** … …
>
> > [!tldr] \[!] Ken’s cut-in flashes on screen.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** No way…<br>**Ken Amada:** It’s him.<br>**Ken Amada:** So his name is Shinji…
## 08/28, Evening;
> [!note]+ In the command room of Iwatodai Dormitory:
> > **Shuji Ikutsuki:** Good to see everyone’s here.<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** All right, come on in.<br>**Boy’s Voice:** Excuse me, I hope I’m not interrupting.
>
> > [!tldr] The camera will change angles. The door opens, and Ken walks into the command room. An exclamation mark will appear above Mitsuru, Fuuka, Akihiko, the protagonist, Yukari, and Junpei’s heads. Aigis is also present, but will remain still while standing, unmoved. Fuuka will place her right hand over her chest.
>
> > **Fuuka Yamagishi:** Huh? Amada-kun?
>
> > [!tldr] Akihiko will get up.
>
> >**Akihiko Sanada:** No way…<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** Based on our testing results, we’ve confirmed he has more than enough potentiial.<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** So, I decided to call this meeting to introduce him to the rest of the squad.
>
> > [!tldr] Mitsuru will uncross her arms and legs, resting her hands on her lap.
>
> > **Mitsuru Kirijo:** W-Wait, Mr. Chairman, he’s only in elementary school.<br>**Mitsuru Kirijo:** And besides…
>
> > [!tldr] [?] A question mark will appear over Ikutsuki’s head.
>
> > **Shuji Ikutsuki:** Besides… what?<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** We’ve already confirmed he has the potential. With training, he should be a valuable asset to the team.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** Did he say he was okay with this?<br>**Ken Amada:** Actually, it was my idea to join.
>
> > [!tldr] Ken will fold his arms over his chest.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** I feel like I can help too.<br>**Ken Amada:** And, I think I finally understand why I have this power.
>
> > [!tldr] Akihiko puts his hand on his hip. Ken’s arms will fall back to his sides.
>
> > **Akihiko Sanada:** …?<br>**Shuji Ikutsuki:** …As you can see, it was his own decision.<br>**Ken Amada:** Looking forward to working with you. I’ll try not to get in anyone’s way.<br>**Aigis:** I look forward to working with you as well.
>
> > [!note]+ Dialogue Options:
> > > [!quote]- Glad to have you onboard.
> > > > **Ken Amada:** Thank you. I’m hoping to learn a lot, *Yuki-san*.
> >
> > > [!missing]- Don’t push yourself, okay?
>
> > [!tldr] Akihiko’s gaze falls to the coffee table. It will return to look over Ikutsuki and Ken after Junpei first speaks.
>
> > **Akihiko Sanada:** … …<br>**Junpei Iori:** Hey, don’t worry, kid. We got your back.<br>**Junpei Iori:** It might get tough, but you gotta work hard and stick with it.
>
> > [!tldr] Ken raises his fists in the air.
>
> > **Ken Amada:** Understood!
>
> > [!tldr] The screen turns black.
>
> > [!faq] *Yet another new ally has joined.*<br>*Ken Amada… He seems very level-headed for an elementary student.*<br>*As the team leader, I need to give him proper support.*
## 09/02, Lunch Time;
> [!note]+ In classroom 2-F at Gekkoukan High School:
> > [!tldr] The protagonist’s phone beeps three times. He opens the phone to view it.
>
> > [!faq] *It’s a message from Sanada.*
>
> > [!error] ✉ Akihiko Sanada
> > > [!quote] I’d like your backup.
> > > I have something important to take care of after school, and I want you to come along.
> > >
> > > I’ll be waiting by the front gate.
> > >
> > > Meet me there.
## 09/02, After School;
> [!note]+ In classroom 2-F at Gekkoukan High School:
> > [!faq] *Class has ended for today.*<br>*That’s right, I received a message from Sanada earlier asking to meet after school.*<br>*I should go meet up with him.*
>
> > [!note]+ At the front gate of Gekkoukan High School:
>
> > **Akihiko Sanada:** There you are.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** I’ve got an errand I want you to help me with. Let’s go.
>
> > [!note]+ In front of Hagakure Ramen at Paulownia Mall:
>
> > [!tldr] 🤬 Shinjiro will walk out of Hagakure Ramen scratching the back of his head. A grawlix will appear next to his head.
>
> > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** You’re really starting to piss me off.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** Things have changed. Sorry, but I’m not taking “no” for an answer this time.
>
> > [!tldr] \[?] A question mark will appear next to Shinjiro’s head.
>
> > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** What?<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** This belongs to you.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** There’s a new threat. Persona-users, just like us.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** … …<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** So? That’s not my problem.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** That’s not everything.<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** …Amada has joined our team.
>
> > [!tldr] \[!!] Shinjiro’s cut-in flashes on screen.
>
> > **Shinjiro Aragaki:** …!?<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** What the hell do you mean!?<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** He has the potential, and Ikutsuki-san approved it. He’s a Persona-user now.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** I don’t believe it…<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** … …<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Tell me one more thing…<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Was it his decision to join?<br>**Akihiko Sanada:** Yeah. He came to us.<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** I see…<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** … …<br>**Shinjiro Aragaki:** Then… I guess I’ll stick around.
>
> \[…]
## 10/04, Dark Hour
placeholder for tonight lol.
## 11/03, Dark Hour
How immature, fighting over sushi…
Mitsuru-san, please order *tamago* for me. They say you can tell a chef’s skill by how he prepares eggs.